---
ID: 430
post_title: 'LBACS to Long Beach Residents: No Free Speech For You'
author: sightsite
post_date: 2017-04-10 06:02:48
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://dannymejiaindev.com/sightsite/2017/04/10/lbacs-to-long-beach-residents-no-free-speech-for-you/
published: true
---
Long Beach Animal Care Services, and the City of Long Beach by extension, apparently does not want to hear from you if you disagree with their killing of animals in general, or with their illegal actions with relation to animals in their care. In other words, No Free Speech For You. If you go to Long Beach Animal Care Services' Facebook page, you'll now see a "Terms of Use" notice that says, among other things: ***Long Beach Animal Care Services reserves the right to remove without notice any comments or submissions that it deems to be inappropriate or offensive..." among them "personal attacks, defamatory attacks, or any type of comment that is non-constructive, hateful, spiteful or insulting." ***Also, anything that they consider "factually inaccurate" (a term thrown loosely about by LBACS and the City when it comes to the data around animal outcomes, particularly adoptions) can also be deleted by LBACS, apparently. Because "insulting" is a very subjective criterion that LBACS has given itself free reign to apply, this policy covers, well, just about anything LBACS management doesn't agree with. As you may know, it is the policy of this page not to comment on the Long Beach Animal Care Services Facebook page. We feel our Facebook postings, articles the media writes about our advocacy and communications we send to the City and/or LBACS are an adequate outlet for our discussions about the animals. We never have posted on their page and have no intention to. However, it is very disturbing when we see a public, taxpayer-funded agency which has been publicly criticized for poor management, that uses killing as a primary means of addressing animal homelessness and that has illegally killed at least one animal and probably many more once all research has been completed, trotting out legalese to tell the folks who pay their salaries that LBACS can delete, based on an extremely broad definition, anything they don't agree with. When people unnecessarily kill animals and do so in potentially illegal and inhumane ways, they don't like to be called out on it. And this surely proves it. ​ We encourage people to continue to speak out for animals at LBACS - but not on their page. Through the means provided us by our democracy: Commenting at City Council, asking for meetings with your Council representatives, peacefully protesting, and any of the many ways discussed below: ​ How you can help: <a title="" href="https://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fgoo.gl%2FU44smo&h=OAQHy2JTBAQGHut5C7C2qY6k8EQLxQMuqAG6L2ofZLG7IOw&enc=AZOZcXEfNYSUcQqgOUHUV5o18uMq7S0n_BhOV7GxapH9totesf3zmSPuSPiMAsTIiqgM0psEyxTVLzsXwcih_O4ZCwFa64XJ_pfEc09VDQ4w1EHU88zjjaK-OxDXXjetHu73Wspmv7F0aP3SJqVzwVbdE5-3Eeo6jwXt9Qx78VR5izp3_-NJMesF1IMJT6NU4z58z5R3Lsh4FinXOWY-6yrv&s=1" target="_blank">https://goo.gl/U44smo</a> Report complaints about LBACS: <a title="" href="https://goo.gl/FT7V8j" target="_blank">https://goo.gl/FT7V8j</a>